documentation.md, before:

# Documentation:

# Game mechanics
(Q,W,E) slashes bricks, Enter dashes
Slash destroys the brick immediately in front of the player
Enter is used to dash, when indicated, to reach bricks that are far away
(Q,W,E) + Enter at the same time performs a slash dash, both dashing and slashing. This is used to destroy a group of bricks (not all immediately in front of player)
Hold (Q,W,E) to hit hold notes. Hold (Q,W,E) after a slash dash to destroy group hold notes.
If you miss a note, you will be "stunned" and all notes on the screen will disappear, and you will have to wait a little bit for new notes

The game's tick rate is at least faster than 25 ms between ticks. If more than 25ms occurs between ticks, that time is cut up into 25ms intervals.
slash actions occur at 15 ms after they are input in most instances. 
	The exception is when the target is a group of notes. When the target is a group of notes
	the slash may occur at up to 60 ms after the input time (the 60 ms delay allows slash and dash inputs to be input "together").
	If both the slash and dash command are received, the action occurs as early as possible
	(at the beginning of the tick that the complementary input was received, but at least 15 ms after the first of the two inputs)
dash actions occur immediately after they are received, with as little delay as possible (when there is a dash target with dash indicator)
	If the player has already dashed to the dash indicator, or if there is no dash indicator, then the delay is the same as slash (15-60ms)
slash and dash actions are input at as precise times as possible, which means in between ticks. When the action is taken in between ticks, when the tick occurs,
	the tick is split into the time before the action and the time following the action. The action strikes bricks both at the split time and at the end of the tick,
	so that if the bricks become hittable in the same tick that the action is done, they are always hit.
on hold notes, the hold state begins immediately after the tick that the slash occured
	holds are always set to start at the beginning of ticks, because the slash that preceded the hold hits at the end of its tick
after being stunned, you will not be required to dash to the first new notes

# Rust source code

## src/lib.rs
contains some types and functions common to multiple files, and exports to wasm

## src/objects.rs
contains types and constants common to different objects

## src/game.rs
contains the Game class. Game is exported to wasm and through Game all functionality in the game runs

## src/player.rs
contains the Player class. Controls player movement and action, one of the main components of the Game class

## src/brick.rs
contains the Brick class. Information on bricks travelling up the screen

# javascript scripts

## conventions

classes are uppercase snake case.\
files with an uppercase name hold a class of the same name. Files with a lower case name hold multiple classes/functions. \
snake case is used for variables/functions. variables/functions coming from the wasm binding retain their snake case from the rust source\
class members are supposed to be directly accessed only by the class itself. External functions should only access/modify a classes members through the classes methods.\
class members are often named at the head of the class before being initialized

## scripts/Game.js

Game.js holds Game class and a subclass Editor. \
Contains logic and controls for running and querying the game\
interacts heavily with web assembly bindings\
plays and pauses audio

## scripts/Overlay.js

contains Overlay class, which contains majority of DOM components overlayed on top of the game\
contains logic for interacting with overlay (components such as menu and home screen) and instructions for what happens when interactions occur\
overlay components are destroyed and reconstructed

## scripts/EventPropagator.js

contains EventPropagator class, which effectively is an umbrella over both the game and overlay\
passes events to the overlay when an overlay element is set to capture events\
updates overlay based on game state\
contains the fundamental game loop

## scripts/index.js and scripts/main.js

entry point, creates and initializes components

## scripts/graphics.js

contains logic for rendering graphics

## scripts/load.js

contains function for loading graphics\
contains glue code for interacting with sqlite database

## scripts/readMIDI.js

remnant file that is kept around in case it is useful in the future

# audio-resources.json / audio

each key in audio-resources.json file represents a sound effect from the Game
their index must correspond exactly with the index in lib.rs of a SoundEffect with the same name

the Game keeps a record of which sound effects should be played
the record is reset every tick, so the javascript is expected to call to Game every tick requesting which sound effects to play
the sound effects to play are represented by u8 values indicating the index of the sound effect

# graphics-resources.json / src/resources.rs / graphics

each key in the graphics-resources.json file represents 1 graphic or animation. \
to add a graphic or animation, add the key to the resources.json file and create an array with the associated images\
then, modify resources.rs such that: \
	- keys have a corresponding GraphicGroup. Names must be identical\
	- the offset dimensions of the graphic are specified\
	- the size of the graphic is specified\
	- max count of the new graphic/animation are specified\
The offset dimensions define how much offset the graphic has from the object it represents. \
	- For example, if a graphic represents a person, the offset defines how much space around the person is also included in the graphic\
	- offsets therefore should be relative to the object's size\
	- offsets are added to both sides of the object (i.e. an x offset is added to both the left and right side) to determine the graphic size

animation frames are cycled through at 120 fps

graphics are displayed by passing the graphic id and frame number (along with transformation flags) to js\
when the frame number is passed to js, the script does a modulus with the total number of frames in the animation to determine which frame to present

render() functions within graphics.js:\
graphic instructions are accessed by the script through a direct pointer to memory (may cause bugs later, but is performant)\
graphics can be displayed with WebGL or with canvases. WebGL uses the gpu, so is better for some computers

# data

data is stored as songs and notes.\

the time notes are meant to be played is described by the "beat position", i.e. the beat value when the note is meant to be played.
	together with the beats per minute (bpm) value of the song, the beat position describes an exact time to play the note 
	e.g. a beat pos of 16 means 16 quarter beats since the song start. At 60 bpm this is at 4 seconds

songs contain metadata about the song (song name, artist, time created, time modified, file name, difficulty) \
	- difficulty meant to be between 0-10
songs also contain data that is used to play the game or run the editor (beats per minute, brick speed, song duration, song start offset)\
	- beats per minute describes the interval of time between beats, which effects when notes are meant to be played. Value meant to be within 40-160\
	- brick speed describes how fast notes travel up the screen in pixels per second. Value meant to be within 100-5000\
	- song start offset describes how much offset (in seconds) is added to the song time before it starts playing
this is for editor purposes, so that the audio aligns with beat markers. Value meant to be within 0 to 6 seconds (6 seconds is 4 beats at the slowest 40 bpm)\
	- duration meant to be between 0-600 (10 minute limit)

notes indicate what song they belong to, and contains data about the note\
(note type, beat position, end beat position, x position, isTriplet boolean, isTrailing boolean, isLeading boolean, isHoldNote boolean)\
	- note type is one of the three note types\
	- beat position is the beat value that the note is set to show up at (together with bpm describes the time the note is meant to be played)\
	- end beat position is the beat value when the note ends\
	- x position is the x position of the note\
	- isTriplet is not implemented, may be implemented in the future for easy support of triplet notes\
	- isTrailing boolean indicates whether the note shows up very slightly after the time specified by the beat pos\
	- isLeading boolean indicates whether the note shows up very slightly before the time specified by the beat pos\
	- isHoldNote boolean indicates whether the notes is meant to be held down when played

Commit message:

rearrange init functions
Rearranged the init functions to allow the addition of a welcome screen.
	The welcome screen is necessary, as the page is not allowed to load some components until the user provides some input
	index.js now only contains a call to main.run() which is considered the entry point
	Overlay now has a function preInit() which will display the welcome page and waits for a click to load and initialize the game
	EventPropagator now has to be initialized and then has to have its listeners added by a separate function
	there is now a section in the documentation describing how the game is initialized

documentation.md, after:

# Documentation:

# Game mechanics
(Q,W,E) slashes bricks, Enter dashes
Slash destroys the brick immediately in front of the player
Enter is used to dash, when indicated, to reach bricks that are far away
(Q,W,E) + Enter at the same time performs a slash dash, both dashing and slashing. This is used to destroy a group of bricks (not all immediately in front of player)
Hold (Q,W,E) to hit hold notes. Hold (Q,W,E) after a slash dash to destroy group hold notes.
If you miss a note, you will be "stunned" and all notes on the screen will disappear, and you will have to wait a little bit for new notes

The game's tick rate is at least faster than 25 ms between ticks. If more than 25ms occurs between ticks, that time is cut up into 25ms intervals.
slash actions occur at 15 ms after they are input in most instances. 
	The exception is when the target is a group of notes. When the target is a group of notes
	the slash may occur at up to 60 ms after the input time (the 60 ms delay allows slash and dash inputs to be input "together").
	If both the slash and dash command are received, the action occurs as early as possible
	(at the beginning of the tick that the complementary input was received, but at least 15 ms after the first of the two inputs)
dash actions occur immediately after they are received, with as little delay as possible (when there is a dash target with dash indicator)
	If the player has already dashed to the dash indicator, or if there is no dash indicator, then the delay is the same as slash (15-60ms)
slash and dash actions are input at as precise times as possible, which means in between ticks. When the action is taken in between ticks, when the tick occurs,
	the tick is split into the time before the action and the time following the action. The action strikes bricks both at the split time and at the end of the tick,
	so that if the bricks become hittable in the same tick that the action is done, they are always hit.
on hold notes, the hold state begins immediately after the tick that the slash occured
	holds are always set to start at the beginning of ticks, because the slash that preceded the hold hits at the end of its tick
after being stunned, you will not be required to dash to the first new notes

# Rust source code

## src/lib.rs
contains some types and functions common to multiple files, and exports to wasm

## src/objects.rs
contains types and constants common to different objects

## src/game.rs
contains the Game class. Game is exported to wasm and through Game all functionality in the game runs

## src/player.rs
contains the Player class. Controls player movement and action, one of the main components of the Game class

## src/brick.rs
contains the Brick class. Information on bricks travelling up the screen

# javascript scripts

## entry point
index.js makes a call to main.run(), which is considered the entry point. index.js should not contain other code.
main.run() creates the overlay, which shows a pre-initialization screen to wait for user input. Once input is received, the full initialization can happen
	the wait is necessary because, on some/all browsers, some components are not allowed to load without user input
the full initialization sequence is contained in main.js initFunction()
	first, the wasm memory object is loaded and initialized, which may require an asynchronous wait
	second, the controls object is initialized
	third, the Game object is loaded and initialized, which may require an asynchronous wait
	fourth, the EventPropagator object is loaded and initialized, which may require an asynchronous wait
	fifth, the Overlay initializes its game aspects, which comprise most of the overlay
	sixth, the EventPropagator adds its event listeners, to listen for regular user input (as opposed to the initial user input required to initialize)


## conventions

classes are uppercase camel case.\
files with an uppercase name hold a class of the same name. Files with a lower case name hold multiple classes/functions. \
camel case is used for variables/functions. variables/functions coming from the wasm binding retain their snake case from the rust source\
class members are supposed to be directly accessed only by the class itself. External functions should only access/modify a classes members through the classes methods.\
class members are often named at the head of the class before being initialized

## scripts/Game.js

Game.js holds Game class and a subclass Editor. \
Contains logic and controls for running and querying the game\
interacts heavily with web assembly bindings\
plays and pauses audio

## scripts/Overlay.js

contains Overlay class, which contains majority of DOM components overlayed on top of the game\
contains logic for interacting with overlay (components such as menu and home screen) and instructions for what happens when interactions occur\
overlay components are destroyed and reconstructed

## scripts/EventPropagator.js

contains EventPropagator class, which effectively is an umbrella over both the game and overlay\
passes events to the overlay when an overlay element is set to capture events\
updates overlay based on game state\
contains the fundamental game loop

## scripts/index.js and scripts/main.js

entry point, creates and initializes components

## scripts/graphics.js

contains logic for rendering graphics

## scripts/load.js

contains function for loading graphics\
contains glue code for interacting with sqlite database

## scripts/readMIDI.js

remnant file that is kept around in case it is useful in the future

# audio-resources.json / audio

each key in audio-resources.json file represents a sound effect from the Game
their index must correspond exactly with the index in lib.rs of a SoundEffect with the same name

the Game keeps a record of which sound effects should be played
the record is reset every tick, so the javascript is expected to call to Game every tick requesting which sound effects to play
the sound effects to play are represented by u8 values indicating the index of the sound effect

# graphics-resources.json / src/resources.rs / graphics

each key in the graphics-resources.json file represents 1 graphic or animation. \
to add a graphic or animation, add the key to the resources.json file and create an array with the associated images\
then, modify resources.rs such that: \
	- keys have a corresponding GraphicGroup. Names must be identical\
	- the offset dimensions of the graphic are specified\
	- the size of the graphic is specified\
	- max count of the new graphic/animation are specified\
The offset dimensions define how much offset the graphic has from the object it represents. \
	- For example, if a graphic represents a person, the offset defines how much space around the person is also included in the graphic\
	- offsets therefore should be relative to the object's size\
	- offsets are added to both sides of the object (i.e. an x offset is added to both the left and right side) to determine the graphic size

animation frames are cycled through at 120 fps

graphics are displayed by passing the graphic id and frame number (along with transformation flags) to js\
when the frame number is passed to js, the script does a modulus with the total number of frames in the animation to determine which frame to present

render() functions within graphics.js:\
graphic instructions are accessed by the script through a direct pointer to memory (may cause bugs later, but is performant)\
graphics can be displayed with WebGL or with canvases. WebGL uses the gpu, so is better for some computers

# data

data is stored as songs and notes.\

the time notes are meant to be played is described by the "beat position", i.e. the beat value when the note is meant to be played.
	together with the beats per minute (bpm) value of the song, the beat position describes an exact time to play the note 
	e.g. a beat pos of 16 means 16 quarter beats since the song start. At 60 bpm this is at 4 seconds

songs contain metadata about the song (song name, artist, time created, time modified, file name, difficulty) \
	- difficulty meant to be between 0-10
songs also contain data that is used to play the game or run the editor (beats per minute, brick speed, song duration, song start offset)\
	- beats per minute describes the interval of time between beats, which effects when notes are meant to be played. Value meant to be within 40-160\
	- brick speed describes how fast notes travel up the screen in pixels per second. Value meant to be within 100-5000\
	- song start offset describes how much offset (in seconds) is added to the song time before it starts playing
this is for editor purposes, so that the audio aligns with beat markers. Value meant to be within 0 to 6 seconds (6 seconds is 4 beats at the slowest 40 bpm)\
	- duration meant to be between 0-600 (10 minute limit)

notes indicate what song they belong to, and contains data about the note\
(note type, beat position, end beat position, x position, isTriplet boolean, isTrailing boolean, isLeading boolean, isHoldNote boolean)\
	- note type is one of the three note types\
	- beat position is the beat value that the note is set to show up at (together with bpm describes the time the note is meant to be played)\
	- end beat position is the beat value when the note ends\
	- x position is the x position of the note\
	- isTriplet is not implemented, may be implemented in the future for easy support of triplet notes\
	- isTrailing boolean indicates whether the note shows up very slightly after the time specified by the beat pos\
	- isLeading boolean indicates whether the note shows up very slightly before the time specified by the beat pos\
	- isHoldNote boolean indicates whether the notes is meant to be held down when played
